README.md, before:

# Secure-Ebook-Platform

---

<div style="text-align: center;">
    <img src="images/hacker.jpg" alt="Secure Ebook Platform" width="50%">
</div>

---

## Project Description
Secure-Ebook-Platform is a web application developed using Flask, aimed at managing e-books with a strong focus on security. The platform implements protection against various web vulnerabilities, such as SQL Injection, Cross-Site Scripting (XSS), Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF), Session Hijacking, and File Upload attacks. It features a clean and user-friendly interface based on the "Ebook Landing" template and provides security mechanisms for a safe and secure user experience.

## Table of Contents
1. [Features](#features)
2. [Installation](#installation)
3. [Usage](#usage)
4. [Project Schedule](#project-schedule)
5. [Contributors](#contributors)
6. [License](#license)

## Features <a name="features"></a>
- **E-book Management**: Securely add, view, and manage e-books on the platform.
- **SQL Injection Protection**: Parametrized queries to prevent malicious SQL injections.
- **Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) Prevention**: Input validation and output encoding to safeguard against XSS attacks.
- **Session Hijacking Protection**: Implement session validation techniques to ensure session security.
- **CSRF Protection**: Use CSRF tokens to prevent unauthorized requests.
- **Secure File Uploads**: Validate file types and content to protect against malicious uploads.
- **Security Testing Interface**: Easily enable and disable individual security features for testing purposes via the user interface.

## Installation <a name="installation"></a>
1. Clone the repository:  
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/rafalgajos/secure-ebook-platform.git
   ```
2. Navigate to the project directory:  
   ```bash
   cd secure-ebook-platform
   ```
3. Install dependencies:  
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```
4. Run the application:  
   ```bash
   flask run
   ```

## VirusTotal Integration

The platform integrates with [VirusTotal](https://www.virustotal.com) to scan uploaded files for malware. To enable this feature, follow the steps below:

1. Obtain an API key by signing up at [VirusTotal](https://www.virustotal.com/gui/join-us).
2. Create a file named `virus_total_api.txt` in the root directory of the project.
3. Add your VirusTotal API key to the `virus_total_api.txt` file:
   ```plaintext
   your_virustotal_api_key_here
   ```
4. Ensure that this file is present in the same directory as the Flask application before running the platform.

#### Important: If the virus_total_api.txt file is missing or the API key is not properly configured, the server will fail to start, and you will encounter a FileNotFoundError.

## Usage <a name="usage"></a>

- Start the application.
- Use the interface to upload and manage e-books.
- Test security features by enabling/disabling protection mechanisms from the navigation bar.
- Review e-books and submit reviews, protected against SQL Injection and XSS.

## Project Schedule <a name="project-schedule"></a>

- **Initial Planning**: Define project scope, analyze vulnerabilities (SQL Injection, XSS, CSRF, Session Hijacking, File Upload), and select tools and technologies.
- **Basic Application Structure**: Create views, routing, and session management. Implement basic session security.
- **SQL Injection Protection**: Add a review module secured against SQL Injection by parametrizing SQL queries.
- **XSS Protection — Milestone 1**: Implement XSS prevention mechanisms, input validation, and HTML escaping.
- **Session Hijacking Protection**: Enhance session security by checking IP and User-Agent for session validation.
- **CSRF Protection**: Implement CSRF tokens in forms to prevent unauthorized requests.
- **Secure File Uploads — Milestone 2**: Implement secure file uploads with MIME type validation and content checks.
- **Security Testing and Final Documentation**: Conduct security tests (SQL Injection, XSS, CSRF, Session Hijacking, File Upload) and finalize documentation.
- **Final Adjustments and Submission**: Complete any final fixes, perform testing, and prepare the project for submission.

## Contributors <a name="contributors"></a>

- Natalia Brzezińska
- Rafał Gajos

## License <a name="license"></a>

This project is protected under copyright law.  
Copyright 2024 Natalia Brzezińska, Rafał Gajos  
All Rights Reserved.

Commit message:

Add LICENSE, update README with license details, and add robots.txt
Co-Authored-By: NataliaBrzezinska <104686482+NataliaBrzezinska@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

# Secure-Ebook-Platform

---

<div style="text-align: center;">
    <img src="images/hacker.jpg" alt="Secure Ebook Platform" width="50%">
</div>

---

## Project Description
Secure-Ebook-Platform is a web application developed using Flask, aimed at managing e-books with a strong focus on security. The platform implements protection against various web vulnerabilities, such as SQL Injection, Cross-Site Scripting (XSS), Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF), Session Hijacking, and File Upload attacks. It features a clean and user-friendly interface based on the "Ebook Landing" template and provides security mechanisms for a safe and secure user experience.

## Table of Contents
1. [Features](#features)
2. [Installation](#installation)
3. [Usage](#usage)
4. [Project Schedule](#project-schedule)
5. [Contributors](#contributors)
6. [License](#license)

## Features <a name="features"></a>
- **E-book Management**: Securely add, view, and manage e-books on the platform.
- **SQL Injection Protection**: Parametrized queries to prevent malicious SQL injections.
- **Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) Prevention**: Input validation and output encoding to safeguard against XSS attacks.
- **Session Hijacking Protection**: Implement session validation techniques to ensure session security.
- **CSRF Protection**: Use CSRF tokens to prevent unauthorized requests.
- **Secure File Uploads**: Validate file types and content to protect against malicious uploads.
- **Security Testing Interface**: Easily enable and disable individual security features for testing purposes via the user interface.

## Installation <a name="installation"></a>
1. Clone the repository:  
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/rafalgajos/secure-ebook-platform.git
   ```
2. Navigate to the project directory:  
   ```bash
   cd secure-ebook-platform
   ```
3. Install dependencies:  
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```
4. Run the application:  
   ```bash
   flask run
   ```

## VirusTotal Integration

The platform integrates with [VirusTotal](https://www.virustotal.com) to scan uploaded files for malware. To enable this feature, follow the steps below:

1. Obtain an API key by signing up at [VirusTotal](https://www.virustotal.com/gui/join-us).
2. Create a file named `virus_total_api.txt` in the root directory of the project.
3. Add your VirusTotal API key to the `virus_total_api.txt` file:
   ```plaintext
   your_virustotal_api_key_here
   ```
4. Ensure that this file is present in the same directory as the Flask application before running the platform.

#### Important: If the virus_total_api.txt file is missing or the API key is not properly configured, the server will fail to start, and you will encounter a FileNotFoundError.

## Usage <a name="usage"></a>

- Start the application.
- Use the interface to upload and manage e-books.
- Test security features by enabling/disabling protection mechanisms from the navigation bar.
- Review e-books and submit reviews, protected against SQL Injection and XSS.

## Project Schedule <a name="project-schedule"></a>

- **Initial Planning**: Define project scope, analyze vulnerabilities (SQL Injection, XSS, CSRF, Session Hijacking, File Upload), and select tools and technologies.
- **Basic Application Structure**: Create views, routing, and session management. Implement basic session security.
- **SQL Injection Protection**: Add a review module secured against SQL Injection by parametrizing SQL queries.
- **XSS Protection — Milestone 1**: Implement XSS prevention mechanisms, input validation, and HTML escaping.
- **Session Hijacking Protection**: Enhance session security by checking IP and User-Agent for session validation.
- **CSRF Protection**: Implement CSRF tokens in forms to prevent unauthorized requests.
- **Secure File Uploads — Milestone 2**: Implement secure file uploads with MIME type validation and content checks.
- **Security Testing and Final Documentation**: Conduct security tests (SQL Injection, XSS, CSRF, Session Hijacking, File Upload) and finalize documentation.
- **Final Adjustments and Submission**: Complete any final fixes, perform testing, and prepare the project for submission.

## Contributors <a name="contributors"></a>

- Natalia Brzezińska
- Rafał Gajos

## License <a name="license"></a>

This project is proprietary software.  
© 2024 Natalia Brzezińska, Rafał Gajos  
All Rights Reserved.

The source code and logic of this project are fully owned by the authors. However, the "Ebook Landing" template and images from [TemplateMo](https://templatemo.com) and [Freepik](https://freepik.com) are not covered under this license, and their rights remain with their respective creators as per their terms. Users are responsible for adhering to the licensing requirements of these external resources.
